# The Admin Panel

URL: https://payloadcms.com/docs/admin/overview
Scraped: 2025-11-02T08:25:33.002Z

The Admin Panel

Payload dynamically generates a beautiful, fully type-safe Admin Panel to manage your users and data. It is highly performant, even with 100+ fields, and is translated in over 30 languages. Within the Admin Panel you can manage content, render your site, preview drafts, diff versions, and so much more.

The Admin Panel is designed to white-label your brand. You can endlessly customize and extend the Admin UI by swapping in your own Custom Components—everything from simple field labels to entire views can be modified or replaced to perfectly tailor the interface for your editors.

The Admin Panel is written in TypeScript and built with React using the Next.js App Router. It supports React Server Components, enabling the use of the Local API on the front-end. You can install Payload into any existing Next.js app in just one line and deploy it anywhere.

The Payload Admin Panel is designed to be as minimal and straightforward as possible to allow easy customization and control. Learn more.

Redesigned Admin Panel with a collapsible sidebar that's open by default, providing greater extensibility and enhanced horizontal real estate.
Project Structure

The Admin Panel serves as the entire HTTP layer for Payload, providing a full CRUD interface for your app. This means that both the REST and GraphQL APIs are simply Next.js Routes that exist directly alongside your front-end application.

Once you install Payload, the following files and directories will be created in your app:

1app
2├─ (payload)
3├── admin
4├─── [[...segments]]
5├──── page.tsx
6├──── not-found.tsx
7├── api
8├─── [...slug]
9├──── route.ts
10├── graphql
11├──── route.ts
12├── graphql-playground
13├──── route.ts
14├── custom.scss
15├── layout.tsx

If you are not familiar with Next.js project structure, you can learn more about it here.

As shown above, all Payload routes are nested within the (payload) route group. This creates a boundary between the Admin Panel and the rest of your application by scoping all layouts and styles. The layout.tsx file within this directory, for example, is where Payload manages the html tag of the document to set proper lang and dir attributes, etc.

The admin directory contains all the pages related to the interface itself, whereas the api and graphql directories contain all the routes related to the REST API and GraphQL API. All admin routes are easily configurable to meet your application's exact requirements.

Note: If you don't intend to use the Admin Panel, REST API, or GraphQL API, you can opt-out by simply deleting their corresponding directories within your Next.js app. The overhead, however, is completely constrained to these routes, and will not slow down or affect Payload outside when not in use.

Finally, the custom.scss file is where you can add or override globally-oriented styles in the Admin Panel, such as modify the color palette. Customizing the look and feel through CSS alone is a powerful feature of the Admin Panel, more on that here.

All auto-generated files will contain the following comments at the top of each file:

1/* THIS FILE WAS GENERATED AUTOMATICALLY BY PAYLOAD. */,
2/* DO NOT MODIFY IT BECAUSE IT COULD BE REWRITTEN AT ANY TIME. */
Admin Options

All root-level options for the Admin Panel are defined in your Payload Config under the admin property:

1import { buildConfig } from 'payload'
2

3const config = buildConfig({
4  // ...
5  admin: {
6    // ...
7  },
8})

The following options are available:

Option

	

Description




avatar

	

Set account profile picture. Options: gravatar, default or a custom React component.




autoLogin

	

Used to automate log-in for dev and demonstration convenience. More details.




autoRefresh

	

Used to automatically refresh user tokens for users logged into the dashboard. More details.




components

	

Component overrides that affect the entirety of the Admin Panel. More details.




custom

	

Any custom properties you wish to pass to the Admin Panel.




dateFormat

	

The date format that will be used for all dates within the Admin Panel. Any valid date-fns format pattern can be used.




livePreview

	

Enable real-time editing for instant visual feedback of your front-end application. More details.




meta

	

Base metadata to use for the Admin Panel. More details.




routes

	

Replace built-in Admin Panel routes with your own custom routes. More details.




suppressHydrationWarning

	

If set to true, suppresses React hydration mismatch warnings during the hydration of the root <html> tag. Defaults to false.




theme

	

Restrict the Admin Panel theme to use only one of your choice. Default is all.




timezones

	

Configure the timezone settings for the admin panel. More details




toast

	

Customize the handling of toast messages within the Admin Panel. More details




user

	

The slug of the Collection that you want to allow to login to the Admin Panel. More details.

Reminder: These are the root-level options for the Admin Panel. You can also customize Collection Admin Options and Global Admin Options through their respective admin keys.

The Admin User Collection

To specify which Collection to allow to login to the Admin Panel, pass the admin.user key equal to the slug of any auth-enabled Collection:

1import { buildConfig } from 'payload'
2

3const config = buildConfig({
4  // ...
5  admin: {
6    user: 'admins', 
7  },
8})

Important:

The Admin Panel can only be used by a single auth-enabled Collection. To enable authentication for a Collection, simply set auth: true in the Collection's configuration. See Authentication for more information.

By default, if you have not specified a Collection, Payload will automatically provide a User Collection with access to the Admin Panel. You can customize or override the fields and settings of the default User Collection by adding your own Collection with slug: 'users'. Doing this will force Payload to use your provided User Collection instead of its default version.

You can use whatever Collection you'd like to access the Admin Panel as long as the Collection supports Authentication. It doesn't need to be called users. For example, you may wish to have two Collections that both support authentication:

admins - meant to have a higher level of permissions to manage your data and access the Admin Panel
customers - meant for end users of your app that should not be allowed to log into the Admin Panel

To do this, specify admin: { user: 'admins' } in your config. This will provide access to the Admin Panel to only admins. Any users authenticated as customers will be prevented from accessing the Admin Panel. See Access Control for full details.

Role-based Access Control

It is also possible to allow multiple user types into the Admin Panel with limited permissions, known as role-based access control (RBAC). For example, you may wish to have two roles within the admins Collection:

super-admin - full access to the Admin Panel to perform any action
editor - limited access to the Admin Panel to only manage content

To do this, add a roles or similar field to your auth-enabled Collection, then use the access.admin property to grant or deny access based on the value of that field. See Access Control for full details. For a complete, working example of role-based access control, check out the official Auth Example.

Customizing Routes

You have full control over the routes that Payload binds itself to. This includes both Root-level Routes such as the REST API, and Admin-level Routes such as the user's account page. You can customize these routes to meet the needs of your application simply by specifying the desired paths in your config.

Root-level Routes

Root-level routes are those that are not behind the /admin path, such as the REST API and GraphQL API, or the root path of the Admin Panel itself.

To customize root-level routes, use the routes property in your Payload Config:

1import { buildConfig } from 'payload'
2

3const config = buildConfig({
4  // ...
5  routes: {
6    admin: '/custom-admin-route', 
7  },
8})

The following options are available:

Option

	

Default route

	

Description




admin

	

/admin

	

The Admin Panel itself.




api

	

/api

	

The REST API base path.




graphQL

	

/graphql

	

The GraphQL API base path.




graphQLPlayground

	

/graphql-playground

	

The GraphQL Playground.

Important: Changing Root-level Routes also requires a change to Project Structure to match the new route. More details.

Tip: You can easily add new routes to the Admin Panel through Custom Endpoints and Custom Views.

Customizing Root-level Routes

You can change the Root-level Routes as needed, such as to mount the Admin Panel at the root of your application.

This change, however, also requires a change to your Project Structure to match the new route.

For example, if you set routes.admin to /:

1import { buildConfig } from 'payload'
2

3const config = buildConfig({
4  // ...
5  routes: {
6    admin: '/', 
7  },
8})

Then you would need to completely remove the admin directory from the project structure:

1app
2├─ (payload)
3├── [[...segments]]
4├──── ...
5├── layout.tsx

Note: If you set Root-level Routes before auto-generating the Admin Panel via create-payload-app, your Project Structure will already be set up correctly.

Admin-level Routes

Admin-level routes are those behind the /admin path. These are the routes that are part of the Admin Panel itself, such as the user's account page, the login page, etc.

To customize admin-level routes, use the admin.routes property in your Payload Config:

1import { buildConfig } from 'payload'
2

3const config = buildConfig({
4  // ...
5  admin: {
6    routes: {
7      account: '/my-account', 
8    },
9  },
10})

The following options are available:

Option

	

Default route

	

Description




account

	

/account

	

The user's account page.




createFirstUser

	

/create-first-user

	

The page to create the first user.




forgot

	

/forgot

	

The password reset page.




inactivity

	

/logout-inactivity

	

The page to redirect to after inactivity.




login

	

/login

	

The login page.




logout

	

/logout

	

The logout page.




reset

	

/reset

	

The password reset page.




unauthorized

	

/unauthorized

	

The unauthorized page.

Note: You can also swap out entire views out for your own, using the admin.views property of the Payload Config. See Custom Views for more information.

I18n

The Payload Admin Panel is translated in over 30 languages and counting. Languages are automatically detected based on the user's browser and used by the Admin Panel to display all text in that language. If no language was detected, or if the user's language is not yet supported, English will be chosen. Users can easily specify their language by selecting one from their account page. See I18n for more information.

Light and Dark Modes

Users in the Admin Panel have the ability to choose between light mode and dark mode for their editing experience. Users can select their preferred theme from their account page. Once selected, it is saved to their user's preferences and persisted across sessions and devices. If no theme was selected, the Admin Panel will automatically detect the operation system's theme and use that as the default.

Timezones

The admin.timezones configuration allows you to configure timezone settings for the Admin Panel. You can customise the available list of timezones and in the future configure the default timezone for the Admin Panel and for all users.

The following options are available:

Option

	

Description




supportedTimezones

	

An array of label/value options for selectable timezones where the value is the IANA name eg. America/Detroit




defaultTimezone

	

The value of the default selected timezone. eg. America/Los_Angeles

We validate the supported timezones array by checking the value against the list of IANA timezones supported via the Intl API, specifically Intl.supportedValuesOf('timeZone').

Important You must enable timezones on each individual date field via timezone: true. See Date Fields for more information.

For example:

1import { buildConfig } from 'payload'
2

3const config = buildConfig({
4  // ...
5  admin: {
6    timezones: {
7      supportedTimezones: [
8        {
9          label: "Europe/Dublin",
10          value: "Europe/Dublin",
11        },
12        {
13          label: "Europe/Amsterdam",
14          value: "Europe/Amsterdam",
15        },
16        {
17          label: "Europe/Bucharest",
18          value: "Europe/Bucharest",
19        },
20      ],
21      defaultTimezone: "Europe/Amsterdam",
22    },
23  },
24})
Toast

The admin.toast configuration allows you to customize the handling of toast messages within the Admin Panel, such as increasing the duration they are displayed and limiting the number of visible toasts at once.

Note: The Admin Panel currently uses the Sonner library for toast notifications.

The following options are available for the admin.toast configuration:

Option

	

Description

	

Default




duration

	

The length of time (in milliseconds) that a toast message is displayed.

	

4000




expand

	

If true, will expand the message stack so that all messages are shown simultaneously without user interaction.

	

false




limit

	

The maximum number of toasts that can be visible on the screen at once.

	

5




position

	

The position of the toast on the screen.

	

bottom-right

Next
Preview